Requirements
The system has the following requirements:

It must keep track of all room information
Rooms have assigned numbers, floor, and occupancy limits.
Rooms have types, examples are single, double, king, etc.
Rooms can have amenities such as fridges, spa baths, etc.
A customer must be able to make a reservation.
Basic customer contact information needs to be tracked (name, phone, email, etc)
A customer should be able to book multiple rooms on the same reservation.
Reservations should have a date range
Reservations should list the names and ages of all guests.
The system should keep track of room rates.
The rates are based on the room type and vary by date range.  Rates change quite frequently since we may charge more for bookings during peak season, during short term events like conferences, etc.
The system should allow tracking of add-ons.
Guests may order room service, movies, and other add-ons for fees.
Much like room rates, the pricing of add-ons may change over time.
The system should keep track of billing
The bill should consist of a header row which contains all the total and tax information
There should be a details table which contains detail rows with the pricing of various types of items (room charges, meals, movies, and other add on charges)
The system should allow for promotion codes
Occasionally, we will give out promotion codes to conference attendees, corporate clients, and others.
A promotion code has a date range it is valid in.
The code may offer a percentage discount or a flat dollar amount off.
Promotion codes should be attached to the reservation.

Queries to consider when designing the schema

1) Write a query that returns all the rooms NOT reserved on a particular date
bonus: allow me to also specify room type

2) Write a query that returns all the rooms reserved for a particular customer
bonus: instead query based on promotional code

3) Write a query that returns rooms that contain a set of amenities
bonus: also order by cheapest & not reserved
(i.e. list of rooms that have mini-bar, hot-tub and fridge -> (101,207,310,323))

4) Write a query that returns a list of reservations that end today
bonus: that also don't have a bill issued

5) Write a query that returns a list of promotion codes, and the #times used.
bonus: allow me to specify a date range

6) Write a query that returns the 10 most expensive bills ever charged
bonus: allow me to specify a customer

 

Consider this....!

- Can I identify all info needed to tell a customer their room ...?
Even if the hotel had multiple floors? If it was a chain and had multiple hotels?

- Can promotions handle a 10% increase, or a 100$ discount?

- Can I pull a bill by reservation? By room? By customer? 
How can I print a complete invoice?

- If room #20 orders 3 bottles of champagne over 3 different days during their stay... 
how does that appear on their bill?

- If I decide to do a rate hike on my housekeeping service, or stop offering valet...
how does this effect my billing & old records?

- How are rooms priced? Base rate for all? By type? By bed size, or things in it?
Or maybe even the location in the hotel? (Kingsized bed room vs pent house)?

- What happens if I cancel a reservation?

- Can a wedding party have many rooms on the same reservations? 
Do they all have to arrive and leave on the same day?

- Can I track 2 HD tvs in a room, or other multiple amenities? Can the room TYPE change?

- Are guests allowed to use multiple promotion codes? Per reservation? Per room?

- Can I waive the price of an amenity or addon? 
(AKA can I offer a free bottle of champagne or a free king bed upgrade?)


